# 200_OK

## Project setup

Inside the 200_OK folder (this folder), run `npm install`.

Inside the react-frontend folder, run `npm install --force`. The `--force` argument is currently due to a dependency issue as noted on GitHub.

Inside the server foldre, run `npm install`.

## Running the Project

There are two ways to run the project: one for development and one for production.

### Running in Production Mode

To run the project in production mode, first navigate to `react-frontend` and run `npm run build`. This will create a `build` folder under `react-frontend`, which will be served by the back-end.

Then, navigate to `server` and run `npm start`. This will start the backend. The server will then be started on port 8000 or the specified `PORT` environment variable. The website will then be accessible through the server port.

### Running in Development Mode

To run the project for development, first navigate to `server` and start it by running `npm start`. Then, open a new terminal, and navigate to `react-frontend` and run `npm start`. The website will then be accessible through port 3000, which is the default port for the React app.

This configuration runs the back-end and the front-end separately. The reason for this is that the production configuration can only serve the built `react-frontend` app, so any changes to the front-end will only be reflected upon a rebuild. However, running the front-end separately will result in a development build being used, which is updated whenever a change to the project code is made.

## Project Structure

The project is split into two parts: the front-end and the back-end. The front-end can be found in the `react-frontend` folder and the back-end is in the `server` folder.

Outside of the folders, there should also be a `secrets.json` file. This file contains various passwords, such as the database password. Please contact a member of the team if you do not have access to this file.

### Front-End

The `react-frontend` folder contains the front-end, which is built with React. Inside, `build` and `node_modules` are autogenerated and gitignored. `public` contains the public assets (such as images) and `src` contains the source code.

The `./react-frontend/src/containers` folder houses several subfolders. The `components` folder houses components that can be reused. The `footer` and `navbar` folders contain the footer and the navbar, respectively. The `layout` folder contains the layout of which all pages are based. The `pages` folder contains all the pages.

The entry point of the React app is in `./react-frontend/src/App.js`.

### Back-End

The app back-end is in the `server` folder. The server uses a Model-View-Controller architecture, with view responsibility being handled in the React front-end.

The entry point of the back-end is in `./server/index.js`. This entry point then uses several components. Firstly, Routers in `./server/routers` are directly responsible for the routes (e.g. `localhost:8000/api/get-all-products`). Each route has associated with it a function in a corresponding controller.

Controllers, in the folder `./server/controllers`, are responsible for the application logic. Each controller gets the necessary data to perform each action from models. Then, the controller methods compile the data together to send back a JSON response.

Finally, models in `./server/models` get relevant data by querying the SQL database. To accomplish this, they use the `server/mysqlHandle.js` file which defines some convenience functions that make it easier to send SQL queries using the mysql npm package.

## About

200_OK is a website developed for the IT Project subject at the University of Melbourne.

Authors:

- Wenzheng Du
- Daniel Zheng
- Zimo Peng
- Ghazal Ronagh
- Andrew Pritchard

## Quick Links

[Confluence](https://200ok-comp30022.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/IP2/overview)

[Jira](https://200ok-comp30022.atlassian.net/jira/software/projects/IP2/boards/1)

[Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/M6yUcPFcaSs6sVjpjJn91x/Pet-Store-Prototype)

[Coding Standards](https://200ok-comp30022.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/IP2/pages/5472508/Coding+Standards+and+Git+Workflow)
